.. index:: operating systems

COMP 410: Operating Systems
=======================================================

Credit Hours
-----------------------------------

3

Prerequisites
----------------------------

:doc:`../courses/comp264`
:doc:`../courses/comp271`

Description
----------------------------

This is a course in Operating Systems discussing both standalone and
distributed environments. The focus of the course is to understand the
underlying technologies that make contemporary operating systems work
efficiently. We will discuss processes, threads, synchronization, I/O, file
systems, memory management, transactions and system coordination techniques.
Through this course we will discover how these technologies are integrated
into the systems we use today and then utilize these technologies and apply
them to practical applications.

This is NOT a programming intensive course, however, students will be expected
to complete some programming in C with plenty of examples and assistance along
the way. You certainly don't need to know how to program in C today. In
addition, the completion of a technical paper on an OS related subject will
also be expected.

Everyone currently in, or planning to enter the IT field should have a grasp
on these components as they effect every area of the day to day operation of
IT technology. Reference systems will include both Linux and Windows.

Since this course is an advanced study of Operating Systems, it is assumed
that the student has already taken an undergraduate Operating System course.
The course covers:

processes and threads (particularly the concepts of kernel threads, user
threads, and lightweight processes); process and thread scheduling (time-
sharing, real-time); file systems (including network file systems);
communications (including RPC and sockets); synchronization (introducing
mutexes and condition variables in addition to semaphores); Inter Process
Communications (POSIX pipes, FIFOs, message queues, shared memory); security
issues (including authentication and access control).

Syllabi
----------------------------

See :doc:`../syllabi/syllabi`.
